NASA
LENGTH: 4886
Administers the Habitation and Logistics Outpost (HALO) Module Contract for the Gateway Program: highly complex, worth $1.4B, scheduled to last 11 years, and is a FAR part 15 FFP/CPIF hybrid split into five phases. Researches all applicable regulations and local policy to ensure all actions achieve regulatory compliance. Leads and assists negotiated change orders and engineering change proposals to be modified into the contract. Assists the Cost and Price Estimators with the creation of Independent Government Estimates. Ensures there are no Organizational Conflicts of Interest with the Technical Team prior to the receipt and review of proposals. Analyzes proposals received from solicitations to evaluate technical, socioeconomic, price and cost factors, and subcontracting plans while creating, managing, and coordinating fact-finding questions with the technical customers and the Contractor; noting many discrepancies and errors with proposals. Collaborates with the Customers to determine the objective and maximum negotiation positions, and assists during negotiations. Evaluates Contractor past performance and responsibility through Customer discussions, Contract Administrators, SAM, FAPIIS, and CPARS reviews. Performs price and cost analyses to determine fair, reasonable, and realistic proposals while confirming the latest Forward Pricing Rate Recommendations and/or Agreements with DCMA. Facilitates property transfer requests per FAR 52.245-1(j) “Contractor inventory disposal” as well as troubleshooting issues regarding damaged property, coordinating with the CORs and property management team members to ensure all procedures are followed. Advises Contractors when consideration is required for property transfers and forwards all requests to program managers for their approval for consideration requests. Lead a meeting to discuss the necessary steps to take when the Contractor initiates a property request, streamlining future requests henceforth. Reviews data rights assertion requests per FAR 52.227-14 “Rights in Data-General” to determine the validity of the Contractor’s assertions for Limited Rights, Government Purpose Rights, and/or Restricted Rights. Consults with the Intellectual Property Legal team on all issues related to data rights while providing all of my documented research findings. Reviews invoices per FAR 32.905(b) “Content of Invoices”, NFS 1852.232-80 “Submission of vouchers for payment”, and FAR 52.232-25(a)(3) “Contractor’s invoice” to verify that all data and/or deliverables were sent to the appropriate end-user in timely fashion to avoid interest penalties. Applies incremental funding per NFS 1852.232-77 “Limitation of funds (fixed-price contract)” and confirms the runout date for the funds with the Contractor. Created and manages the conformed copy of the contract, noting stark discrepancies in the updates of previous modifications to the file structure as well as improper totals reported to FPDS reports. Assists in the creation of clause deviations by performing appropriate research and drafting specific rationale for Headquarters to review. Supported financial personnel with the review of the final incentive fee for the Cost Plus portion of the contract, noting many discrepancies but issuing the fee prior to fiscal year deadlines. Awarded a contract for rocket thrusters while the primary Contract Specialist was out-of-office. Manages a couple SharePoint sites to manage contract data and to allow for easy collaboration between Customers and Contracting personnel. Works with SBA representatives to review and update Small Business Subcontracting plans for change orders and contracts. Represents and leads my team in weekly status meetings with Customers and Contractors. Coordinates CPARS reviews with the Customer to ensure accurate and timely submissions. Manages one monthly and two quarterly reports detailing the total contract funding amounts for several contracts in the Gateway Program as well as supplier information for all Subcontractors. Follows proper e-filing guidance for all contractual actions, saving all pertinent and relevant emails, documentation, and all other supporting information. Created an automated process to renumber hundreds of contract folders to ensure proper e-filing naming protocols. Created numerous process guides for reviewing invoices, property transfer requests, monthly and quarterly report management, and conformed copy generation. Promptly responds to all Customer and Contractor communication in Microsoft Teams chat and emails. Serves as the Co-Lead for the Contract Specialist Board Employee Resource Group, leading monthly meetings for 50+ Contract Specialists and/or Interns working at JSC; presented an Excel feature to the group. Mentors other team members while delegating specific tasks. Accurately and timely updates statuses for current actions.

NAVSUP
LENGTH: 4891
E AWARD DUTIES Awarded commercial and non-commercial FFP, FFP LOE, and Cost-Reimbursement type contracts, FSS delivery/task orders, and BPA Call Orders under FAR Parts 8, 13, 15, 16, and 19 valued from $10K to $50M, specializing in IT requirements. Thoroughly researched all applicable regulations, local policy, and various ordering guides to ensure all actions achieve regulatory compliance. Planned, coordinated, and processed highly complex and technical requirements by interpreting and applying statutory and regulatory requirements during preparation of price/cost analysis, formulation of negotiation strategies, development of negotiation objectives, and negotiation of contract types. Examined procurement packages and advised Customers of any needed documentation to comply with statutory regulations, laws, and policies. Assisted requiring activities with developing acquisition strategies and goals to promptly create solicitations and awards, procurement objectives achieved, and potential problems identified and mitigated. Reviewed and prepared documentation for Independent Government Estimates, Milestones, Justifications and Approvals, Performance Work Statements, QASP’s, pricing structures, and performance measures. Conducted thorough market research to identify all capabilities to provide maximum competition. Worked with SBA representatives to meet small business goals. Created RFPs and RFQs with applicable evaluation factors, clauses, and provisions. Analyzed proposals and quotes received from solicitations to evaluate Contractor responsiveness and responsibility as well as technical, socioeconomic, price factors, subcontracting plans, and potential Organizational Conflicts of Interest. Evaluated Contractor past performance through Customer discussions, SAM, FAPIIS, SPRS, and CPARS reviews. Performed price and cost analyses to determine fair, reasonable, and realistic quotes and proposals. Processed Unauthorized Commitments to ensure ratification. Presented Pre Solicitation and Pre Award contract review boards to FLC Norfolk. Facilitated evaluation boards and reviewed Technical Evaluation Board reports to ensure evaluations are conducted in accordance with the solicitation and source selection plan.OST AWARD DUTIES Performed contract modifications, exercised options, assessed the scope of contractual changes, processed novation and change-of-name agreements, managed incremental funding, performed contract closeouts, and provided oversight to Contractor performance. Insured timely payments of supplies and services, while resolving any disputes and setbacks. Updated funding/accounting information while de-obligating or re-obligating funds as required. Verified any unliquidated balances in financial systems before proceeding with contract closeout procedures. Worked with legal counsel to ascertain possible issues from contract modifications, scope changes, closeout procedures, Requests for Price Adjustments, and Requests for Equitable Adjustments. Represented FLCN in meetings with Contractors and external Customers. Sole-creator and manager of an automated post award management workbook that identifies due dates and notification actions required for exercising option periods and follow-on packages to assist upper management; utilized by 5 Divisions and 13 work teams, and manages over 73 employees, 559 contracts, and 2656 contract options/ordering periods worth $2.6 Billion; utilizes automation for data entry, email generation, notification identification, and weekly report generation to all teams and divisions.THER DUTIES Served as a warranted Contracting Officer for all contractual actions valued at less than $250K. Functioned as acting supervisor/division head in the absence of leadership. Served as a NAVSUP FLCN representative during the Old Dominion University Fall 2019 Career Fair, engaging students and assisting with EEO interview panels. Taught a Workforce Development Training session to 120+ acquisition professionals about the post award phase in the acquisition lifecycle. Created and managed my division’s automated Work-In-Progress workbook that informs upper management of all status updates for current contract actions, tracking 20+ employees and an average of 55 actions per week. Mentored and assisted team members utilizing help guides I created. Assisted our Policy division with drafting a pre-solicitation form for task orders from boutique Multiple Award Contracts. Created numerous reports for upper management that historically tracked all CPARS registrations statuses. Created an automated clause generator that simplifies the selection and identification of over 319 clauses and provisions. Served as a Superuser for our contracting software, assists users command-wide with adding points of contact, routing folders, closing workloads, and providing guidance on computer operational issues.

USAHCA
LENGTH: 3627
E AWARD DUTIES Awarded commercial Firm-Fixed Price contracts and task orders under FAR parts 13 and 16, focusing on medical-related personal and non-personal services. Saved an average of 25.67 days off of each Procurement Action Lead Time deadline, releasing actions at an average of 32.78% of their due date. Thoroughly researched all applicable regulations, local policy, and various ordering guides to ensure all actions achieve regulatory compliance. Planned, coordinated, and processed highly complex and technical requirements by interpreting and applying statutory and regulatory requirements during preparation of price/cost analysis, formulation of negotiation strategies, development of negotiation objectives, and negotiation of contract types. Examined procurement packages and advised Customers of any needed documentation to comply with statutory regulations, laws, and policies. Assisted requiring activities with developing acquisition strategies and goals to promptly create solicitations and awards, procurement objectives achieved, and potential problems identified and mitigated. Reviewed, prepared documentation, and assisted in the creation of Independent Government Estimates, Milestones, Justifications and Approvals, Performance Work Statements, Statement of Works, Quality Assurance Surveillance Plans, pricing structures, and performance measures. Conducted thorough market research to identify all capabilities to provide maximum competition. Worked with SBA representatives to meet small business goals. Created Requests for Quotes with applicable evaluation factors, clauses, and provisions. Analyzed quotes received from solicitations to evaluate Contractor responsiveness and responsibility as well as technical, socioeconomic, price factors, subcontracting plans, and potential Organizational Conflicts of Interest. Evaluated Contractor past performance through Customer discussions, SAM, FAPIIS, SPRS, and CPARS reviews. Performed price analyses to determine fair, reasonable, and realistic quotes.OST AWARD DUTIES Performed contract modifications to exercise options, assess the scope of contractual changes, perform contract closeouts, and provide oversight to Contractor performance. Saved an average of 39.78 days off of each Procurement Action Lead Time deadline, releasing actions at an average of 16.77% of their due date. Of the 30 contracts I managed, I noted 14 to have discrepancies in their COR nominations which I fixed promptly. In the timespan of two months, I closed-out 136 contracts worth $50.1M while de-obligating $3.8M prior to fiscal year end, representing 54.9% of total closeouts for my seven-person team. Insured timely payments of supplies and services, while resolving any disputes and setbacks. Updated funding/accounting information while de-obligating or re-obligating funds as required. Verified any unliquidated balances in financial systems before proceeding with contract closeout procedures. Represented my division in meetings with Contractors and external Customers.THER DUTIES Promptly fixed all errors for each FPDS report, PDS Validation report, and Pre-Award Validation, receiving zero fatal errors reported to management. Strictly followed proper e-filing guidance for all contractual actions, saving all pertinent and relevant emails, documentation, and all other supporting information. Mentored and assisted team members utilizing help guides I created. Functioned as acting supervisor in the absence of leadership. Accurately and timely completed weekly status reports while creating a more simplified process for my team to generate the reports.

